+++
title = 'Opinion: Current Hardware Sucks'
date = 2024-01-13
draft = false
+++

**DISCLAIMER: THIS IS NOT TO OFFEND ANYONE AND THIS IS MY OWN PRIVATE BLOG SO I WILL SAY SOMETHINGS THAT MAY OR MAY NOT BE TRIGGERING OR "UNPROFESSIONAL".**

------

As I stated in my [[About me]] I love hardware. I have a long list of toys that I want to buy to play with and this is probably the main reason why I am broke, but just to do a quick overview on my rant on some annoyances that I've recently been seeing with computers and hardware.

------

For now a bit of a story.

I started out playing pinball on Windows 7 at my parent's work since it was next door to her office. When I got older at around 11/12 I started playing Minecraft on the libraries computers and lots of Wii and Wii U. I also got quite acquainted with the carpet while playing on my DS and 3DS. As I got older eventually my parent bought me a crappy Tracfone and I got made fun of a lot for my electronics at my school. Sometimes even purposely left out or people try to because I didn't have an iPhone so I couldn't use iMessage (Yeah. People suck.), but I did manage to get several Pentium Desktops and really really old laptops when I was around 16/17. I spent so many times breaking these electronics when I was first starting out and I made some mistakes with what I bought with my own money. After *checks* a good 5+ years of this I can confidently say that I learned a lot, but I really don't want other people to go through the years of pain I had to.

------

Now after that crappy story, a bit of maybe controversial opinions on several bullshit that I have noticed. Firstly, I think most tech bros are idiots and secondly, most people telling people they need to get the latest computer or laptop or whatever or something stupid like that are arrogant idiots who think that because they've been running a bunch of beefy computers since they were like 15, they can tell people what to get for computers. Currently most of my daily use computers are all refurbished or second hand off of sites like Amazon and eBay. The reason mostly being that current computers just suck and I'm tired of the stupid thin, ewaste which have the repairability comparable to the United State's Health Care system and lets be honest, if you're going to college in the Fall as a Freshmen or something like that, do you really need a new laptop for your major? Why spend thousand of dollars on a machine that you won't even use half of the power for your major or whatever people do in their free time? Unless you require running programs that require a beefy computer or you don't have a computer for some reason or yours broke, it doesn't really make sense walking in with a new macbook or a gaming laptop (Btw, those are usually stolen firsts anyways plus to me makes you look like you have a small penis). Not only that, but most gaming laptops have really terrible battery life and I really don't see the point using that for college or even leaving the house with it unless it is something like an Asus G14. This also applies to other areas such as work, home use, etc. Unless you specifically need certain amount of power to do your work or whatever, the average person doesn't need a fancy setup.

I'm not saying all this to sound like a snob or an ass, I'm just not fully understanding why people want everything to look all flashy, or pretty, or colorful (looking at you RGB), or all that power that they won't use. My current computers are pretty good examples.

My main laptop is a refurbished Thinkpad x270 and it is a tank. It is also light and despite some weird RAM issue (I added tape to hold the stick in place and the issue is well known and documented), it has been so far very very good and only starting to seem to have problems which I associate mostly with the hard drive in it plus the limitations of the CPU when I'm an idiot and run like 15+ Firefox tabs. The CPU isn't at all beefy, but it does what I want it to do which doesn't require anything more powerful. I did recently buy myself a nice refurbished Dell Optiplex 7040 and it has been a powerhouse running Linux. Both of these systems cost me less than $250 and if you think that these old systems are crap or not worth the money, you should look up Thinkpads, HP Elitebooks G4, etc on eBay and also read up on why these older laptops are a favorite among people like myself. I also run a lovely Dell Precision T3600 which after a friend suggested getting a machine that has an Intel Xeon CPU for a server, I found this while browsing eBay and after looking up the machine on the internet, I bought it. It sat around for a while until I finally stopped procrastinating and got Debian running on it and now it runs most of my server stuff plus using it as a lab. I do plan on buying a second T3600 + a dirt cheap Optiplex to run as a NAS since you don't need much power for a NAS.

My biggest issue is storage, but for my systems, I have enough to run everything that I want/need.

I am a huge fan of these refurbished or second hand computer equipment because they are amazing and usually have lasted the test of time while also being saved from the garbage. I've also learned more how much power I really need for whatever. We live in an age that if we needed GPU's to crack some stuff or whatnot we could use AWS, Google Cloud, Azure, etc. and if you pay attention to the costs, it won't cost that much or with enough research you can build a nice cluster out of Odroid XU4 to run Hashcat or some nice rule sets. There are also so much data and info on the internet for stuff like rooting smartphones and other toys for whatever project you can think of. Seriously, there is wealth of information and pages and pages of really, really neat things with documentation and manuals. If you ask around as well people can help you out or you can get their help to bounce ideas off of or pick their brain. It is really amazing the age we live in right now, but all these tech bros on YouTube and people giving some pretty awful advice is making me want to smash my head against my desk till I give myself a concussion.

We really should go back to creating machines that last because all we are doing is drowning ourselves in ewaste and basically nasty chemicals and radiation from all these machines. Also, encourage more to use what we have around us and if we don't or can't we sell it to someone who will use it. It would make us a lot more resourceful and also waste less which would help everybody around the world.